# v7.0.0 (Major Release)

**Status**: In progress

This is a new major release of the `@alextheman/components` package. It has the potential to introduce breaking changes that may require a large amount of refactoring. Please read the below description of changes and migration notes for more information.

## Description of Changes

- Gets rid of the deprecated `DropdownMenu` in favour of `DropdownMenu2`
- `DropdownMenu2` will be considered the canonical `DropdownMenu` from that point on, and will be renamed as such.

## Migration Notes

- During the migration, I would recommend aliasing your imports of `DropdownMenu2` to be `DropdownMenu`, like so:

```tsx
import { DropdownMenu2 as DropdownMenu } from "@alextheman/components"
```

That way, refactoring after release only requires you to get rid of the aliasing, rather than rename every single reference to the component.

- Any time you are using a Material UI `MenuItem` within the `DropdownMenu`, this will need to be changed to be `DropdownMenuItem`

```tsx
import { InternalLink, DropdownMenu2 as DropdownMenu, DropdownMenuItem } from "@alextheman/components";

function Test() {
  return (
    <DropdownMenu>
      <DropdownMenuItem component={InternalLink} to="/my-page">
        My page
      </DropdownMenuItem>
      <DropdownMenuItem
        onClick={() => {
          console.log("Dropdown closing");
        }}
      >
        Close
      </DropdownMenuItem>
    </DropdownMenu>
  );
}
```

The benefit of this is that `DropdownMenuItem` will automatically close the menu, so you won't have to remember to do that every time. It also means that the individual `DropdownMenuItem` components are now fully controlled by me as well, as opposed to needing to import `DropdownMenu` from this package but use `MenuItem` from Material UI like we did before. Now I have full control over the entire `DropdownMenu` and its parts.

- I also provide a `DropdownMenuInternalLink` and `DropdownMenuExternalLink` that behave in a very similar way, except they wrap around an implementation where they just pass in the `InternalLink` or `ExternalLink` to the Material UI component directly. `DropdownMenuItem` allows you to customise the component using the `component` prop similarly to the main `MenuItem` from Material UI.
